.
Ladies and gentlemen, would you please rise to honor America with the U.S. Navy
Color Guard and the U.S. Navy Sea Chanters.
Advance the colors.
Ready? Go.
Four...
Four... Three... Four...
Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the
twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the
perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the
rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night that
our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the
land of the free And the home of the brave
All right.
You
Ladies and gentlemen please be seated.
Piano music
Oh,
my God.
All right, there. Left off and the clock is started. This is three M-7 the fuel
is go, 1.2G cabin at 14CS. Oxygen is go.
I'm glad to be here and be happy.
The End
It's been a long way, but we're here.
and help
The judge's face.
How could I be your neighbor?
Before we have a prayer, I'd like to share with you two special experiences that
we had with Alan. Many knew him as a famous astronaut, most of you here as a
friend, a colleague. We knew him more as a family man, as the devoted husband of
Louise and the father of Laura, Julie and Alice. Our two daughters are the same
age as his youngest two. They have always been the best of friends. Many times
we saw Alan carrying the girl's dolls and tea sets from their house to ours and
from ours to theirs. Our girls regarded Alan more as their friend's daddy and
not as a world famous figure. So when he offered to fly them along with his
three to Maine, to summer camp, we were thrilled for their sakes. We thought,
just think what the children can tell their children, that Alan Shepard had
flown them to Maine. As parents, that was our perspective. Having been a World
War II B-17 pilot, I immediately asked him how are you going to manage five
rambunctious little girls on the plane? He replied, it's very simple if they get
restless I'll just go up to 10,000 feet
and they will all go to sleep.
We were at the local airport when they took off. They did have some engine
trouble, so they flew directly to Hobby to get it repaired. Eventually, they
took off for Maine. En route, they made other stops to refuel. Hours later, they
arrived at Barnstable Airport in Massachusetts. Upon arrival, one of our little
girls called me on the telephone and implored, oh daddy, please, please, next
time can we go commercial?
Now on to a more serious remembrance. After his return from the moon, my wife
gingerly asked him Alan,
he replied very solemnly, oh, yes, we thought about that. My friends, this is
genuine courage and bravery. This is a tribute to the courage, bravery and
heroism of Alan Shepard, and it is a tribute to all of the astronauts. These are
brave and brave of the extraterrestrials. brave men, I am sure I speak for all
Americans. We are proud of you, and we admire and appreciate your courage and
bravery in this space effort. I could give no more sacred prayer than the
following verses from the Bible. Psalms. Whither shall I go from thy spirit, or
whither shall I flee from thy presence. If I ascend up into heaven, thou art
there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of
the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy
hand lead me and thy right hand shall hold me. As a young boy, who was a Sunday
School student, Alan Shepard learned a prayer. His wife Louise wants his friends
to hear this prayer, as he came to know it. She stated that this prayer had a
profound influence on his life. This is the prayer by Mary Baker Eddy. Thy
kingdom come. Let the reign of divine truth, life, and love be established in me
and rule out of me all sin. And may thy word enrich the affections of all
mankind and govern them. And from the scriptures. Simon Peter answered him,
Lord, we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the son of the living
God. And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life.
Good afternoon, Louise, the Sheppard family, ladies and gentlemen. It's
wonderful to look out in that audience and almost recognize every face there.
We're here this afternoon to remember Alan Sheppard as a friend and as a
colleague, one who we all admire and will find impossible to replace. In 1959,
when the United States decided to fly man in space, the newly chartered NASA
needed a number of men to fly their Mercury spacecraft. The requirements for
these aviators and soon-to-be-called astronauts were reasonable to be
straightforward and unambiguous. unsurchemistry. A number of us in the Space
Task Group had come from the world of airplane flight tests, and we recognized
that we needed experienced test pilots who understood the rigors of testing the
unknown and were accustomed to putting their lives in jeopardy every time they
flew. They had to be prepared to do their job regardless of the threatening
circumstances they might find themselves in. We also wanted them to understand
the engineering design required of this new flying machine and to be able to
participate in its development. Alan Shepard volunteered to be one of the men we
were looking for. He came to this new challenge because in his mind spaceflight
was the next step in man's quest to fly higher and faster and as a navy test
pilot, this was his kind of business. He did not come into the space program
looking for glory. Indeed, many of his peers looked with scorn on what they
thought was a step backward in test flying and refused to consider themselves as
test specimens for a highly experimental program with a questionable future.
year. In fact, if you listen to the so called medical community who were
advising NASA in 1959, the test pilots who were criticizing Project Mercury were
justified in their evaluation. The great majority of the doctors believed that
man's reaction to this new environment of zero gravity and a perfect vacuum
would cause disorientation, nausea, loss of sight, and other dire ailments, and
as a result, might be totally incapable of doing work, much less conducting the
complex and intricate task we were expecting them to carry out. Fortunately, Bob
Gilruth, and those of us who work for him, believed that a qualified test pilot,
with proper training, could most likely accomplish the same tasks and space that
they had been conducting in high performance airplanes. We wanted the men who
were going to fly to be an integral part of the spacecraft, just as they had
been in the airplanes they flew. As the first man flight approached, the
competition for being first among the seven astronauts became very intense. As
in any group greater than one, it was difficult to choose who should be
selected. Bob Gilruth, a man who never received the proper credit for being the
father of man in space flight, met with the astronauts and asked them to write a
brief essay on who and why they should be chosen to fly the first flight,
excluding themselves.
From this interesting and provocative exercise, and with the advice and consent
of his staff, He picked Alan Shepard to fly the first manned mercury redstone
flight These were heady times And Alan already charged Doubled his efforts to
train for the 15-minute sub-ortal flight Unfortunately Shepherd's flight had to
be preceded by the flight of a chimpanzee Although we were six we successfully
launched and recovered ham the hot engine of the redstone caused an early
shutdown which precipitated an escape rocket separation, subjecting him to 17G
and giving gave the false impression that the animal had failed to perform. The
demand of further redstone testing and a requirement to test a large number of
animals on the Johnsonville centrifuge postponed Shepherd's flight. Shepherd was
extremely disappointed and agitated by the delay as was the entire space task
group. The real disappointment came several weeks later when the Russians
launched Yuri Gagarin into orbit and recovered him after one revolution. With
added resolve and the permission of the President's Scientific Advisory
Committee, the animal tests were cancelled, a test flight of the redstone was
completed, and MR3 was given a green light. After several launch attempts had
been scrubbed because of weather, on Friday, May 5th, 1961, Shepherd was again
ready to fly. NASA had decided to allow the media, including television, to
cover the launch in real time, putting tremendous pressure on everyone involved
— but this decision turned out to be far wiser than all of us could have
imagined. The launch was scheduled for 7 a.m., but clouds and rain covered the
cape. We decided to press on, have Alan enter the capsule, and wait for the
weather to clear. The picture I had on my console of Shepard exiting the trailer
at the pad with searchlights shining on him and his silver space suit is still
emblazoned in my mind. It was one of the most exciting moments of our lives. We
all waited, and finally the weather began to clear, and we picked up the count.
As we reached T-minus-two minutes, the magic point in a count in those days,
Stan White began giving me Alan's vital signs, and he reported his heart rate
was increasing and near liftoff reached 180. He was not the only one whose
adrenaline was flowing. I looked down to make some notes and suddenly noticed
the microphone on my headset was missing. I was about to have it replaced when I
realized it was still there, but I was shaking so hard that it appeared as a
blur in my eyes.
and his health.
He performed exactly as you would expect the finest test pilot to do, and his
entry and recovery were equally spectacular. The Navy helicopter retrieved
Shepherd and his spacecraft, and history was made. The reaction of the country
to this brief suborbital flight was incredible, and Shepherd had become the hero
he had not set out to be. The world praised the US for its success, but
particularly for the willingness to share it with the rest of the world as it
happened. This, they reported, was in stark contrast to the Russian secrecy and
failure to report their missions until they were successfully completed. The
country celebrated the astronauts' accomplishment, and President Kennedy invited
Shepard and his colleagues to the White House to receive the country's highest
honor. The impression that Shepard's flight made on the country and the world
was not overlooked by the President, and within weeks he had decided to
challenge the nation with landing men on the moon and returning them safely to
Earth before this decade is out. Alan Shepard had not only become the nation's
first astronaut, he had inspired his country to set out on one of its greatest
adventures. Alan's contribution to his country, his commitment to the space
program, and his willingness to always go the last mile to show it are what made
him so dear to all of us. I'd like to end with this prayer from the Episcopal
Book of Common Prayer. Almighty God we remember this day before thee thy
faithful servant Alan Shepard and we pray thee that having opened to him the
gates of larger life thou will receive him more and more into thy joyful service
that he may win with thee and thy servants everywhere the eternal victory
through Jesus Christ our Lord Amen
Ladies, family, guests, friends of Al's, all of us here today. Alan Shepard was
many things. He was a patriot. He was a leader. He was a competitor, a fierce
competitor. He was a hero. Mostly importantly to us, he was a close friend. When
we seven were chosen as the first American astronauts, Al stood out, and I had
first known Al several years earlier when we were both test pilots at the Naval
Air Test Center at Patuxent River, Maryland. But it wasn't until the Mercury
program I saw firsthand the determination, the toughness, and the courage of
Alan Sheppard. Think we have to remember, as Chris referred to a moment ago, the
depths of the cold war we tend to forget that sometimes and all of a sudden
after sputnik america's technological superiority in this world was under
serious question we tried to put up satellites we'd failed we'd beaten up we we
had been beaten in the early days of the space race by a country that bragged
that America now sleeps under a Soviet moon, as they twitted us. It meant
something to us. Many kids of the world were going to Moscow for education
instead of to our schools in this country, and nations were being affected by
the propaganda that was being put out. We'd sum it up by saying it was a very,
very low time for American self-esteem. The naysayers and the doubters about our
nation were getting very, very serious attention. But Al brought us back. He
brought us back because of his leadership in the mercury program. He brought us
back because he carried the American questing spirit on his shoulders into the
heavens. He brought us back because Al took that challenge from the Soviet, not
only as the patriot he was. Al took that personally.
All seven of us watched some of those early rocket tests and we watched some of
them fail and occasionally in very spectacular fashion. We could spend a couple
of hours here this afternoon talking about our experiences and watching some of
the things down there and then people saying and you're going to go up on one of
those things. But that didn't deter us. And especially it did not deter Al.
Named his spacecraft Freedom 7, we were free to name our own spacecraft back in
those days, Freedom 7, his view of where this whole program stood in
relationship to openness around the world, what we stood for. Fact is he sat in
Freedom 7 through yet another delay before his historic Mercury mission. He was
very anxious to get going, and we heard an anxious-to-get-going Al suggest, why
don't you fix your little problem and light this candle?
And he wasn't making light, but he, that one moment eloquently portrays Al as a,
Al's dedication to getting the program going. America's lost one of its true
adventures, someone whose entire life was dictated by the American questing
spirit. And Alan and Scott and Gordo and Wally and I have lost more than a
friend. We've lost another brother. The National Aviation Hall of Fame every
year has an induction ceremony that traditionally closes with the reading of
what is without a doubt the single best known poem among aviators all over the
world. It was written by an American who joined the Royal Canadian Air Force and
was killed at the age of 19 flying a Spitfire during the Battle of Britain. the
words have an even more special meaning to us today than they did in 1977 when
the name of Alan Shepard was inscribed in the Aviation Hall of Fame the poem is
titled High Flight oh I have slipped the surly bonds of earth and danced the
skies on laughter silvered wings sunward I've climbed and joined the tumbling
mirth of sun-split clouds and done a hundred things you have not dreamed of
wheeled and soared and swung high in the sunlit silence hovering there I've
chased the shouting wind along and flung my eager craft through footless halls
of air up the long, delirious, burning blue I've topped the windswept heights
with easy grace where never lark or even eagle flew blue and while with silent
lifting mind I have trod the high untrespass sanctity of space, put out my hand
and touch the face of God." Even as we meet here today, Al is now, right now,
this very minute, experiencing that ultimate of all times high flight but here
we will all miss him very much louise and the family our thoughts and prayers
with you.
It has been nearly four decades since I first met Al Shepherd. Shortly after
that, I first came to know him early in our training when I rode in his Corvette
from Langley Field to Johnsville for some early centrifuge training. By the time
we got to Johnsville I realized I was in the company of a dedicated naval
officer, a unique and capable aviator, a born leader, and a serious competitor
in anything he decided he wanted to do. The placard in his corvette on the
dashboard, saying, especially made for Alan B. Shepherd, only added to my awe
and respect for this multi-talented fellow. I never asked, and that is why I
never found out, how he came by that special compensation from General Motors.
But I always wondered.
for a long time both Al and I lived with some names that we were not
particularly fond of His was Bartlett, mine is Malcolm. We fell into the custom
after a while of always addressing each other by those names. In keeping with
that custom, I will now say my hat's off to you Bartlett. Thank you for all you
have done for the Navy, for the space program, and for your country. It is an
honor and a privilege to have known you.
Weezer, family, friends, and some military people, I might add. I would like to
recommend that we all think of as Rear Allen Bartlett Shepard Jr., U.S. Navy,
Yankee from New Hampshire,
Naval Academy graduate, Black Shoe, Cogswell in the Pacific, Brown Shoe, Naval
Aviator, Aircraft Carriers, Test Pilot, Astronaut, and a very generous man. When
we were brought, I don't think we reordered, I think we volunteered, to Langley
Air Force Base, we suddenly realized we didn't have any more uniforms, they were
gone. We were going to be civilians from then on. Our budget was rather tough,
because I don't recall, I was talking to Joe, my wife, just the other day, I
don't recall ever going to work without wearing a uniform. This was a big
transition for us. So we sat in this very humble office, seven of us, with Nancy
Lowe sitting outside, guarding the door as our secretary, wondering what the
heck we're doing here. The seven of us bonded almost immediately. We left on
different parts of the continent, literally, to check on engineering drawings,
on engineering plans, on engineering symposiums, medical tests in addition to
the original ones we had, briefings, simulations. We were kind of busy. and each
Friday we came back and debriefed each other so we knew what was going on. It
was the only way we could cover the whole ballpark. With that we began to
realize that each of us were participating in whatever flight we had. But as I
watched, I saw Alan Sheppard stand out. I made the mistake of voting for him on
that pier thing now that I think about it.
As a result, I could see Al was becoming a leader. here. We had our Mercury
program go on, and time came on and Deke Slayton was to fly, who was remembered
here not too long ago. Rather tough to come back again here, but thinking of
Deke, we realized that if he was going to be grounded we better have him in
charge. We didn't want an Admiral coming down to take care of us and be
responsible for us. We wanted one of our own. After Mercury, Allen was due to
fly Germany and was grounded because of Meniere's syndrome, an ear problem,
grounded for almost a decade. Dic asked Al, would you help me out and be in
charge of the astronaut office? We had two great leaders. We've lost two of our
great leaders. We're down to four now. We've lost Gus on the launch pad. The
brotherhood we had will endure forever. It's that interesting part of Allen
Shepard that came to light when he got to the Moon finally, and he hit that ball
for miles and miles. My last recollection of Alan hitting a golf ball was on
Kauai, on the sixth green of Ocean Nine on the edge, he drove a ball off the
edge into the Pacific Ocean, and he said, that one went miles and miles. I
didn't have to take a Mulligan. You will remember Alan B. I was called Sky-Ride
by him. The family, of course, we all think of, and it's kind of tough to be
called Bartlett, isn't it? But at least we had a lark in the high flight, and
that's the two children of grandchildren did Alan. Of course the whole family.
Here I love and feel so very warm.
I'll make it bye bye now.
Louise and family. I sort of had a message for Al today.
We had a lot of adventures together, Al. We're in the first group of six
contestants. Started out in Washington for a whole week of mental exams, written
exams. And then we went on to Lovelace Clinic. that was very interesting as
they've been told to weed as many people as they cut out so we were the first of
the guinea pigs if you will to come through and it was very interesting they
weeding a lot of people out they were brutal but it was real adventure then we
went from there to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base where we went through the
physiological training where they put us on vibrators and they dunked us in ice
water and they roasted us in ovens and They sealed us up in soundproof chambers
and everything they could think of to do to people and really discourage them
and see if they could tolerate it. And out of that then we had a real adventure
in April of 59 when we were all brought out onto a stage like this and announced
to the world who the seven first seven were. And boy, there were lots of
cameras, lots of reporters. That was certainly most of us's really exposure to
the news media and the cameras and the world of public relations. But we
survived that, didn't we, Al? We got through it. And we survived the Navy
Frogman School. We went through UDT training like we went through every other
kind of training we could think of. We survived that one and we roasted in the
Nevada Desert together. found out we could learn to get along all right in the
desert situation we survived the jungles of Panama
we survived the research and really the research and the running the engineering
they went on on the Johnville center a few years it was brutal but it proved
what how strong how capable the human body really is. We raced many miles in
identical Corvettes
and I'm sorry Al that I never told you that I changed the ratio in my
differential
and you really weren't any less a driver it's just that I cheated a little on
you
we spent long days and nights getting ready to get MR3 ready to go I was going
to be the blockhouse communicator and we were together on the communication
system in the launch and I'll never forget there was not a dry eye anywhere in
the blockhouse when we launched. And I had Warner Brown and Kurt Levis right at
my right elbow, and they were very excited to be able to speak to Al very
briefly. And then you were my capsule communicator on my Mercury flight.
Well, we had lots of good flying, lots of good times together, Lots of good
tests and a lot of things going on. Now you're up there in that big hangar in
the sky having a lot of good flights and we'll miss you Al. But we'll be there
before long so we'll try some of that flying ourselves. My best to all of you
and we'll miss Al. Thank you.
Good afternoon. It's my privilege but sad duty to represent the Apollo 14 crew
on this occasion.
I know Stu would have wanted to be here, but his wonderful family has come over
to be with us for this occasion. And in thinking of Stu and Alan, I'm reminded
of an event that happened as we came up from the lunar surface. If you remember
the tapes, as we came into sight of the command module, you could hear hear
Stuart's voice come over the radio and say, hello down there, fearless one. What
are you doing down there? You seem to have lost a little weight since the last
time I saw you. I'm somewhat sure that last week, Stuart might have repeated
almost those same words.
I am a privileged
that Alan chose Stewart and I had to go with him.
He was a wonderfulougful teammate, colleague,
leader, boss.
I remember on the final day of our simulation of the lunar landing before the
flight, when the team had thrown virtually every malfunction they could find at
us and we successfully when it was over, I turned to him and said,
Congratulations, boss, I think we're ready to go. And he smiled in an inimitable
way and said, Yeah, Ed, I think we are.
I want to pay tribute to him and what a privilege it was to serve with Alan
Shepard.
and I'm sure that
wherever it is that astronaut and explorers go when we depart this realm that
Alan and Sue Deacon Gus, Roger, Ed Elliot, Charlie C.C., Jack, Jim, and Ron
pioneering
and exploring and doing things that one
day we will all be doing together again.
Farewell and thanks a lot.
Louise, det Shepard family, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I first met Al
Shepard when he and I were part of the original Mercury candidate group. Of
course, I knew of him through his work he had done at the Naval Air Test Center.
Al offered me a ride in his Corvette from the hotel to the Dolly Madison house,
where we were briefed by Project Mercury. And I thought to myself, this is one
naval officer who really has it made. How much does one of these cost? I asked
him. And he replied, if you got to ask, you can't afford to own one.
But Al was a natural born leader, The type that people want to emulate and
follow. And sure enough, it wasn't long before a lot of us were driving
Corvettes. Al's legacy as a pioneer in our space program is firmly etched in the
history books. He was fiercely competitive and won the position to be the first
American in space. He had the motivation and the perseverance to hang in there
during eight years of being grounded before he finally flew on Apollo 14 and
landed on the moon in a place called Vromaro. When that opportunity was earlier
denied me, I could not think of a more appropriate person to take my place than
Alan B. Shepard. Al's legacy in space is a thing of the past, a legacy future
generations can reflect on when they want to reminisce about the early heroes of
space exploration. But Al Shepard left another legacy, one that did not die with
him, a legacy that is alive, growing, and prosperous. He was the driving force
behind the establishment by the Mercury 7 astronauts of the Astronaut
Scholarship Foundation. It started out, modestly enough, in 1986 with a
distribution of $1,000 to seven aspiring future engineers and scientists. But,
just recently, the foundation distributed $8,500 to over 17 students. Today, I
would like to introduce to you a young lady, Miss Lisa Beason. She is an early
participant of the scholarship program. having received three scholarships is
now a member of the board of directors of the foundation and who is forever
grateful to its chairman Alan Shepard.
Admiral Alan B. Shepard, Jr., some of you knew him simply as Al Shepard. When I
was putting together my thoughts for today I was somewhat uncertain how I wanted
to refer to Alan Shepherd because he was simultaneously one of the greatest
heroes in American history and also one of the most approachable and friendly
people I have known. I'm here to pay tribute to Alan Shepherd today because of
the tremendous impact that he had on my life and on the lives of the other 105
people who have, so far, received the astronaut scholarship. Everyone knows
about Alan's incredible accomplishments as the first American to fly in space,
his walk on the Moon and the other public achievements throughout his career in
the space program and in the Navy. However, since 1984, Alan worked on something
which was not as widely known but which I that I think will prove to be his
greatest legacy. That is, the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation. Even among
people who have achieved great goals, Allan stands out because he continued to
contribute to the greatness of America up through the last days of his life. It
was his dedication to the Astronaut Scholarship Foundation which made it into
the solid organization that it is today. Today, he helped it grow from its
beginnings of awarding just $7,000 in 1986 to today, we award over $144,000
annually in the form of 17 scholarships that go to some of the top science and
engineering students in the nation. He never rested on his past accomplishments.
I was always impressed with the amount of time, effort, and caring that he put
into the Scholarship Foundation. He viewed it as his way, along with the other
astronauts, of continuing to strengthen America's position and capabilities in
science and engineering. And it worked. The Scholarship winners received not
only a monetary award, all of the current recipients and the alumni receive an
annual invitation to meet astronauts from the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, Skylab
and Space Shuttle programs, and to meet each other. It is through these annual
meetings that a strong network of scientists and engineers is being formed.
Individually and together, they are making advances on many of today's frontiers
in science and technology. It is also at these annual meetings where so many of
the astronaut scholars have been inspired by Alan Shepard. It was obvious how
much he cared about the scholarship winners when he met with them. We were all
so thrilled to talk to him, and I loved the way he took a genuine interest in
the lives of the students and alumni. This group of young scientists and
engineers is lucky to have met him. program. I would not have achieved the
success I have experienced today without Allen's dedication to this scholarship
program. The scholarship was the most significant source of funding for my
college education. And then after graduation when I started volunteering with
the foundation it was the support and encouragement of Allen and the other
astronauts which gave me the confidence needed to advance quickly in my career
in engineering at Westinghouse. Without Without that positive feedback, I
honestly believe I would not be in the position I am today. It's difficult to
describe the impact that he made. Then during the last eight years as I came to
know Allen and serving with him on the board of directors of the scholarship
foundation for the past couple of years, he always made me feel like I could do
anything beyond my wildest dreams. All of the astronaut scholars will be forever
grateful to Allen Shepherd for everything that he did for us. these simple words
can't express the difference he made to Louise and the entire Shepard family I
think you have a wonderful guardian angle watching over you now and I think I've
now discovered the answer to the uncertainty that I posed before about what's
the best way to refer to Alan Shepard I think I'll just call him my friend
Louise, Shepard family, and all the friends of Alan Shepard here today. Before I
make my personal remarks, I'd like to read you a letter from the President. Dear
Mrs. Shepard, Hillary and I were deeply saddened to learn of your husband's
death and our hearts go out to you. Alan Shepard was a true hero. Courage,
determination, and an irrepressible sense of humor, he blazed a trail for our
nation into the unknown and sparked the dreams of a generation. As the first
American in space and one of only twelve to walk on the moon, he made an
enormous contributions to our space program and expanded the reach of human
knowledge. I hope you will take comfort in knowing that your husband holds a
special place not only in our nation's history but also in the hearts of his
fellow Americans. His death is a great loss for us all. We are keeping you and
your family in our thoughts and prayers sincerely, Bill Clinton.
I know it can be done, that it's important for it to be done, and I want to do
it. These simple but poignant words were written in Life magazine in 1959. The
author captured NASA's mind, body and soul. The author was NASA's mind, body and
soul, Alan Shepard. Alan dared to dream. He believed in his heart that the NASA
family had the talent, courage and focus to do what others said we in America
couldn't do. and he wanted to be first. He, like the other astronauts of Mercury
7, wanted to lead the way. But not just in the early days. Everyone knows about
Alan Shepard's historic ride on Freedom 7 and his golf shot during Apollo 14.
But he did so much more. He was a fighter who always fought. for our nation and
its space program. He always fought for the future. I remember one instance in
1993 when the Space program was in big trouble in the Congress. Allen, always a
competitor, went to work. He wrote editorials and made phone calls on the
upcoming vote on the nation's Space program. John Glenn can tell you that
members of Congress get a lot of phone calls from a lot of important people, but
when Alan Shepard was on the line, you always picked up the phone. Many people
predicted a resounding loss and many people predicted an end to space
exploration for decades to come.
America won its space program by a single vote that year. Ever since, the margin
of victory has increased, and ever since, the space program has gotten stronger.
We win in large part because Alan Shepard knew it could be done, that it was
important that it be done, and he wanted to do it. Alan was not only a fighter,
but a visionary. Alan told me on many occasions about his vision for Mars
exploration. His eyes would light up. No surprise, he personally wanted to go
and he wanted to be first.
I tell you today, Allen, America will go to Mars and when we do it, it will be
because we, like you, knew it could be done, that it was important that it be
done, and that we wanted to do it. That's the way Allen thought. he knew no
other way and now NASA thinks the same way. Alan Shepard was our mind. Before
the Mercury 7 were named not too many people really knew about our space program
in America or the world. NASA was around, but we were really a bunch of nerdy
engineers and scientists, talented and hardworking nerds nonetheless.
But then Alan Shepard and the Mercury Seven came along. They were intense,
determined, and willing to risk their lives to open the space frontier for our
country. They gave America's space program a real face, and they gave our nation
what all nations and what all people need heroes.
Genuine, bonafide heroes. The Mercury seven were the beginning and Al was the
first. At a time when our nation's confidence was down, he had the courage to
climb a track on top that not completely tested redstone missile and opened the
space frontier. He was our mind and our body. That first trip to space lasted
only 15 minutes, but the space Alan Shepard occupies in our history, in our
nation's consciousness, in our hearts, will last forever. After all, it's a very
high compliment when someone wants to grow up to be like you. Literally millions
of children wanted to grow up like Alan Shepard. Older kids like me still do
because when he lifted off, he lifted our spirits and he inspired us to always
explore the unknown and discover what's possible, to always think of the future,
to always do our part. Alan was our soul. The poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
once wrote, where a star quenched on high for ages would its light, still
traveling downward from the sky, shine on our mortal sight. So when a great man
dies for years behind his ken, the light he leaves behind him lies upon the
paths of men. Alan Shepard lived to travel towards stars quenched on high. Today
he is a star quenched on high and his spirit shines on. It shines on Louise and
his family. It shines on America and it shines on a space program that whether
the moon, Mars, or beyond promises to live by the words I know it can be done
that it's important for it to be done and I want to do it. Alan Shepard, a
brilliant star in the heavens will forever shine on us, NASA's mind, body, and
soul.
Oh, Danny boy, the pipes, the pipes are calling From glen to glen and down the
mountainside
The summer's gone and all the roses falling It's you, it's you must go and I
must abide
But come ye back when summer's in the meadow O'er all the valleys hushed and
white with snow?
It's I'll be here in sunshine or in shadow.
Oh, Danny boy, oh, Danny boy, I love you so.
But when ye come and all the flowers are dying If I am dead, as dead I well may
be Ye'll come and find the place where I am lying And kneel and say an Ave there
for me And I shall hear, though soft ye tread above me And all my grave will
warmer, sweeter be
for ye shall bend and tell me that you love me
and I will sleep in peace
until you come to me.
OCRF Team
Eternal Father, strong to save, whose arm doth bind the restless wave,
who vids the mighty ocean deep its own appointed limit, keep. O hear us when we
cry to thee for those in peril on the sea.
Eternal Father King of earth Who discreet the heaven and earth And bid the
planets and the sun Their own appointed orbits run O hear us when we seek thy
grace, for those who soar through outer space.
Amen.
.
Retire the colors.
Come back up.
Thank you.
The
She was trying to get a car. She was trying to get a car and get his back and
get some fun. What the fuck?
The day was to the night in the night.
Then the day was on the night.
Pardon? I took the card off.
Good night.
Well, thank you all for coming this very warm afternoon.
We're here today to honor one of our comrades. He, like the others that we've
commemorated here with these trees, have been a part of this great adventure we
call Spaceflight, but Alan Shepard did much more, he led the way. He represented
the very best this country could offer. We knew him, of course, as a husband, a
father, and a friend, but Alan was much more than that. He has been, is, and
always will be a part of our achievements and accomplishments in space. He's
been with us each step of the way. There are those that would say that our
colleague is not with us today. That is not true. If you'll bear with me, I
would like to read you the words that were written by one of the individuals
that we commemorate with a tree in this grove of trees. His words that he wrote
I think apply very well today. Do not stand at my grave and wait for me, I am
not there, I do not sleep. I am a thousand winds that blow, I am a diamond glint
on fallen snow. I am the scent of ripened grain, I am the stars that shine at
night, I am the summer sunshine bright. So do not stand at my grave and cry, for
I am not there for I did not die."
Ellen Shepherd has been, always will be a part of each step of the way we take
in space. And God bless Ellen and his colleagues we have commemorated here in
this Grove of Trees. And God bless all of you and Louise, you and your family,
and all of you who have come today.
now looize if you'll join me. we'll uh. and john we'll go ahead and uh
Thank you.
Now, if you'll please join me for a moment of silent prayer.
This is a
very good question.
For all the
bells they
hear, FOR dwa, do,
do, do,
do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. Take care!
on inлив
That concludes the ceremony. Thank you all very much for coming.